# [Standards](https://www.learn.ed.ac.uk/bbcswebdav/pid-3357983-dt-content-rid-6859553_1/courses/INFR100222018-9SV1SEM1/7%20Standards.pptx)
_2018-10-11 - Meeting 7 - Week 4_

- What are standards for?
- Overview on a quality standard _ISO 9001:2015_
- Avionics Standards Structure
- IEC 61508: Industrial Process Management Framework

## What do standards do?

Mandate certain qualities of processes and products to:

- **Promote industrial and market efficiency**: level playing field. companies can't compete unfairly by producing inferior products that don't meet the standard.
- **Foster international trade**: internatinoal standards agreed and accepted in all countries fosters international trade
- **Lower barriers to market entry**
- **Diffuse new technologies**: if new technology has an agreed standard this de-risks the purchaser (other suppliers/products available)
- **Protect human safety/security and the environment**: ensure not harmful to humans/environment. Involves balancing cost against level of harm

## ISO 9001:2015 is a generic standard

- **ISO**: International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO is actually a French name)
- 160 member National Standards Organisations
- Some key standards:
  - ISO 9001: Quality Management Systems (QMS)
  - ISO 14001: Environment MS (EMS)
  - ISO 27001: Information Security MS (ISMS)
- ISO 9001:
  - International consenus on good practice
  - Focusses on meeting customer requirements and other stakeholders
  - Places requirements on organisations
  - Covers any organisation regardless of size, sector, culture, etc.

## ISO 9001:2015 in operation

- Sets _what_ must be achieved, but doesn't say _how_
- QMSs (quality management systems) will vary a lot across organisations
- Is a tool for management to manage quality effectively
- QMS that comply with this standard are often preferred or mandated for procurement. If the org is compliant then the suppliers must be compliant too (this can be a significant competitive advantage)

## ISO 9001:_2015_

This is the 5^th edition, and follows 7 principles.

1. Custome focus
1. Leadership
1. Engagement with people
1. Process approach
1. Improvement
1. Evidence-based decision making
1. Relationship management

## Risk-based management

ISO 9001 supports risk-based management that balances the cost of risk agains tht benefits of opportunities.

It supports custom confidence, supports consistency of quality, and promotes a culture of risk awareness that helps prevent negative events.

## IOS 9001:2015's main sections

1. Scope
2. Normative references
3. Terms and definitions
4. Context of the organization
5. Leadership
1. Planning
1. Support
1. Operation
1. Performance Evaluation
1. Improvement

## Plan Do Check Act

- Cyclic process: sections 1, 2, 3 Re background
- Plan: sections 4, 5, 6
- Do: sections 7, 8
- Check: sections 9
- Act: section 10

### Plan

4. Context of the organization
    - Capturing the org
    - Capturing the stakeholder needs
    - Scoping range of the QMS
    - QMS and processes

5. Leadership
    - Commitment of leadership
    - ... which drives _policy development_
    - Roles, responsibilities, authority
      - Worst thing to do is to give someone the responsibility but not the ability to make it possible. They don't have the authority. Ask people to buy pencils but don't give them a budget.

6. Planning for the QMS
    - Actions to tackle risks and opportunities
    - Quality objectives and mechanisms to achieve them
    - Planning changes

### Do

7. Support
    - Resources
    - Competence
    - Awareness
    - Communication
    - Documentation

8. Operation
    - Operational planning
    - Requirements on quality for products & services
    - Service/product design
    - **Control of use of external products and services**
    - **Production of products and services**
    - **Release of products and services**
    - **Controlling non-conforming outputs, products and services**

**Bolded bit**: making sure shit doesn't blow up!

### Check, Act

- **Check**
  9. Performance Evaluation  
    - Monitoring, measurement, analysis, evaluation
    - Internal Audit
    - Management review
- **Act**
  10. Improvement
    - General
    - Non-conformity and corrective action
    - Continual Improvement

## Certification

There's a certification process that checks compliance. It involves audit (**and re-audit**) of the process.
